Setup & Run

    Install dependencies: pip install cryptography
    CLI Usage: python mykey_cli.py gen --service twitter --len 20
    GUI Usage: python mykey_gui.py

NIST/CISA Tip: Both interfaces use getpass or show='*' to prevent "shoulder surfing" of your master password.
Building a
zero-trust password generator means creating a system where the secrets (passwords) are generated and handled only on your local machine, ensuring no server or third party ever sees the data. 
Core Architecture for Zero Trust

    Client-Side Execution: All logic must run in your local environment (browser or CLI) so that "nothing is sent to any server".
    Cryptographic Randomness: Use a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator (CSPRNG) rather than standard math functions to ensure unpredictability.
    Statelessness: Avoid storing passwords in a central cloud database; instead, use a "deterministic" or "offline" approach where passwords are generated on demand and stored in an encrypted local vault. 

Step-by-Step Build Guide
1. Choose Your Environment

    Browser-Based (HTML/JS): Best for a portable, user-friendly tool. Use the Web Crypto API for secure randomness.
    CLI (Python/Bash): Best for advanced users. Use the secrets module in Python to generate high-entropy strings. 

2. Implement Cryptographic Randomness 
A zero-trust generator must avoid predictable patterns. In JavaScript, use window.crypto.getRandomValues(): 
javascript

const array = new Uint32Array(1);
window.crypto.getRandomValues(array);
// Use 'array[0]' to pick characters from your pool

Use code with caution.
3. Define Security Parameters
To meet NIST 2025 compliance and CISA standards:

    Length: Minimum 12–16 characters (20+ for critical accounts).
    Character Sets: Mix uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and special symbols.
    Avoid Patterns: Exclude personal info, sequential characters (e.g., "123"), or lookalike characters (e.g., "i" and "1"). 

4. (Optional) Add Local Encryption

5. People will forget passwords even in true Zero-Trust Scenarios. We cannot provide backdoor in system to such system. 
Implementation is as follows:
The "Zero-Trust" Middle Ground (Better): An Escrow Key. You generate a secondary, high-entropy key during setup. The user is told: "Store this on a physical piece of paper in a safe."
    If they forget the Master Password: They use the Emergency Override with their printed recovery key.
    Encryption remains local: Even with the "backdoor" (Recovery Key), the data is still locally encrypted. No server ever has the key.
    A password manager can always be reconfigured with new set of passwords if one forget master password. The provision of Escrow Key is to facilitate account recovery.
    
    The GUI "Emergency" Implementation
    GUI to include a Mask/Unmask toggle and a way to log in using that Emergency Recovery Key.